# The Guessing Game: MasterMind

The final project: Based on the Altera DE1-SOC development board, using HDL (SystemVerilog) to design and implement a game with the objective of guessing N-digit passcode with the hints showed on the LCD after each try. 

## Description

The system has a passcode that is a 4 digit number in base-4 (i.e. 0, 1, 2, or 3). The objective of
the game is to guess the code. You get multiple tries and will be told how close you came after
each try. You’ll know how many digits were correct (right number in right place), and how many
digits were misplaced (correct number in the wrong place). Of course, you don’t know which
digits were right, just how many of each type there were. The machine also keeps a count of how
many attempts it takes to get to the code (You get a maximum of 15 tries)

## Getting Started

To get started with the game, you need to reset the status of the machine by turning on the
Switch9 and then to begin the game, switch off SW 9. You can use the button KEY0, KEY1,
KEY2 and KEY3 to input the passcode you want. You need to use SW8 to generate a new
random password, this is ideally done right after you switch off SW9. You can use the SW 5 to
show the password generated, and use SW1 to check your misplaced and correct digits.

### The outputs with the following labels represent the following things:

* HEX0: Number of correct digits in the right place
* HEX1: Number of correct digits not in the right place
* HEX5: Number of attempts made
* LED9: Lights up if you lost
* LED8: Lights up if you won
* LED0-7: Shows the password generated by the machine if SW[5] was on.

## How It Works

The machine inializes every value to be zero when the user presses SW9. 
* The number of correct and misplaced
* The random passcode 
* The registered input

If the game was previously lost or won, the corresponding light indicating the value is turned off.

Once the SW8 is turned on the machine is generating the passcode.
* Using the LFSR module which outputs a random 8 bit number
* Pairing of each of 2 bits can be used as one ‘digit’ of the passcode
* Resulting in the 4 digits for the passcode

Once SW8 is switched off and the passcode is decided by the machine, you can start
guessing. As the user presses a KEY, the information about what key is pressed is store inside the
machine using the userInput module (that stabilizes the user input) and the assignment module.

The assignment module keeps track of what key was pressed in what order to come up with the
final user entered passcode. 

Example: If the user pressed KEY3, KEY1, KEY0, KEY2 in that order then
the user answer registered would be “3120”.
